1. Basic Identification Information
For user registration, you will need to collect general information about the user to associate the facial data.

Full Name: To uniquely identify the user.

Date of Birth: For age verification and profile uniqueness.

Gender: Optional, but can be used for refining matches in some use cases.

Nationality/Citizenship: For specific country-based use cases, like bank registration or police suspect searches.

Government ID Number (optional): If applicable (for example, National ID, Social Security Number, etc.).

2. Contact Information (Optional, depending on the use case)
This is usually required for systems like banks but may be optional for law enforcement or less sensitive use cases.

Phone Number: To contact the user for follow-ups or verification.

Email Address: For registration and account management purposes.

Home Address: To verify the user's identity if needed (for banks, official records, etc.).

3. Facial Data for Recognition
This is the core of your system, where you collect biometric data.

Facial Image(s): A high-quality image or multiple images of the user’s face (at different angles) used to generate facial embeddings (the biometric data).

These images should be captured in a controlled environment to ensure accuracy.

The system should store the facial embeddings (numerical vectors derived from the image), not the raw images themselves, in compliance with privacy standards.

Facial Embeddings: The AI-generated features extracted from the face image (this is a set of numerical values that represent unique aspects of the user's facial structure).

This data should be securely stored in the database for future matching.

4. User Consent and Acknowledgment
For privacy and compliance reasons, you should collect explicit consent from the user before processing their data.

Consent to Use Biometric Data: A legal agreement allowing the system to capture and store biometric data (facial data) for identification purposes.

This consent should specify how long the data will be retained, how it will be used, and any third-party access (e.g., law enforcement or government agencies).

Example: "I consent to the collection and processing of my facial data for the purposes of identity verification."

Consent for Data Storage: Consent for storing the data in your database, with clear terms about data retention and how long the data will be kept.

Data Retention Period: Specify how long the biometric data (facial embeddings) will be kept and under what circumstances it will be deleted or anonymized.

5. Security and Authentication Data (For Banks or Secure Applications)
This can be relevant for more secure applications like banking systems.

User Authentication:

Password or PIN: If the user needs to authenticate via password in addition to biometric data.

Two-Factor Authentication (2FA): To enhance security during the onboarding process.

6. Device Information (Optional but recommended for security)
Collecting some basic information about the device used for registration can help with identification and fraud prevention.

Device ID: Information about the device being used to register (e.g., phone model, IP address, geolocation).

Operating System: To ensure compatibility and monitor for suspicious activity.

7. Location Information (Optional, but may be required in some use cases)
This can be useful for location-based services like banking or law enforcement.

Geolocation Data: The location of the user when they are onboarding, often captured via GPS (especially in mobile apps).

For banks: This may help detect fraudulent activities (e.g., if a person is opening an account from a suspicious location).

For police: This could help identify areas where suspects are frequently found or locate an individual.

8. User Profile Data (For Banks or Customer-Oriented Use Cases)
For customer service, you may want to collect more detailed data.

Profile Photo: An optional photo (other than the biometric facial data) for user verification.

Occupation: For profiling or customer segmentation purposes.

Account Preferences: If the system is for a specific service, like a bank, you may want to collect details like account type, services they are interested in, etc.

9. Behavioral Data (For Law Enforcement or Advanced Security Systems)
This is useful for matching and profiling within a law enforcement context.

Behavioral Data: Tracking user behaviors and interaction with the system can improve facial recognition accuracy or assist in profiling for suspect identification.

This may include interactions like login times, usage patterns, or patterns in facial identification.

10. Audit & Compliance Data
To comply with regulations and ensure data security, you may need to track certain administrative details:

Audit Trail: Who accessed the system, when, and what actions they took.

This includes logging access attempts to the facial recognition system for both registration and identification requests.

11. For Law Enforcement (Sensitive Use Case)
In a law enforcement context, additional data may be captured for suspects or persons of interest. It is critical to ensure this data is stored in compliance with the law.

Criminal Record (if applicable): In certain jurisdictions, this data may be captured to correlate faces with criminal history.

Suspect’s Known Alias: If available, this data helps link the facial recognition data to other identifiers.

User Data Collection Best Practices:
Data Minimization: Only collect the essential data needed to perform the task. Avoid unnecessary collection of personal details.

Data Encryption: Ensure all biometric data, user details, and sensitive information are encrypted in storage and during transmission.

Privacy by Design: Follow the principles of data privacy and design your system in a way that ensures users’ privacy rights are respected.

User Consent: Always obtain explicit consent before capturing biometric data (e.g., facial images).

Data Anonymization: Where possible, anonymize or pseudonymize sensitive data, such as facial images, to avoid privacy risks.

Compliance: Ensure compliance with relevant privacy regulations, such as GDPR, CCPA, or Biometric Information Privacy Laws in your region.

Example Data Structure for User Onboarding:
json
Copy
{
  "user_id": "12345",
  "full_name": "John Doe",
  "dob": "1990-01-01",
  "gender": "Male",
  "email": "john.doe@example.com",
  "phone_number": "+1234567890",
  "address": "123 Street Name, City, Country",
  "facial_embeddings": [0.12345, 0.67890, 0.23456, ...],
  "consent": {
    "biometric_data": true,
    "data_storage": true,
    "terms_accepted": true
  },
  "registration_date": "2025-04-01T12:34:56Z",
  "device_info": {
    "device_id": "xyz123456",
    "device_type": "mobile",
    "ip_address": "192.168.1.1"
  },
  "location": {
    "lat": "12.345678",
    "long": "98.765432"
  }
}